icons-extract
=============

Practical extracts of free and open icon themes in SVG and PNG file formats

It is desirable for many websites, software applications, documents,
presentations or graphic designs to be able use free and open icon themes.
Several high quality icon themes are included in free and open software projects
but are not easily accessible for graphic designers or other non-programmers.

All icon themes included here are especially for you extracted in an identical
so it is easy to use the icons files and to find similar icons in different icon
themes. Icon themes are stored in two different formats which can be used
directly.

The source icon files are in Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) format and can be
found in the directories called scalable This can be used in scalable
applications or in an SVG editor such as http://inkscape.org to create new icons
by remixing elements or altering the designs or simply change color schemes. See
also https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Svg

The export icon files are in Portable Network Graphics (PNG) and can be found in
directories which bear the name of the image dimensions. For example, 032x032
contains icons which are 32 pixels in width and 32 pixels in height. See also
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portable_Network_Graphics

The advantage of SVG icons is that they can be used in any dimensions with
becoming ugly because they have been magnified too much. These are scalable to
any dimensions you would like to. However, PNG icons should not be scaled. They
are optimized for certain dimensions and should be zoomed in or out, because
image quality will degrade. The SVG icons should be used to create PNG icons
when there is no icon available for the dimensions you need. sometimes the
software application or website can scale icons up or down but this should be
avoided by using either custom PNG icons exports from the SVG files or the SVG
files directly.

Sometimes extra SVG icons are offered for very small dimensions. Although SVG is
by definition scalable, for very small applications, such as 22 by 22 pixels or
16 by 16 pixels, optimized SVG icons are offered to improve the quality of the
resulting PNG files. When using PNG files, choose the best resolution or create
custom exports from SVG files which are optimized for certain dimensions near
the dimension you need.

Please, take your time to browse the different icon themes and discover the wide
variety of icons offered and their optimizations for different dimensions. Do
this to be able to select the icons you need with maximum image quality.

The icons offered here originate from different software projects and all have
their own copyright and licenses which should be respected. These and more
information can be found in the doc directory and the index.html page for each
icon theme.
